
Step1 (Directory 2):
To download two datasets from 2 website using API
Example 1) Kaggle 2) Hugging Face 
2025-03-02 16:14:58,359 - INFO - Starting Kaggle data ingestion...
2025-03-02 16:15:01,861 - INFO - Kaggle data successfully downloaded and stored in raw_data/
2025-03-02 16:15:01,861 - INFO - Starting Hugging Face data ingestion...
2025-03-02 16:15:14,942 - INFO - Hugging Face data successfully downloaded and stored in raw_data/huggingface_churn.csv

Step 2 : (Directory 3):
Storing the downloaded data into your local machine



Step 3 : (Directory 4):
Data Validation.
Data validation is the process of ensuring that data is accurate, clean, and useful before it is processed or stored. It checks that the data entered into a system meets certain rules or constraints, which are defined based on the type of data and the business logic involved

An excel file indicating what are the missing, duplicate, data_types and negative values


Step 4 : (Directory 5):
Data preparation is the process of collecting, cleaning, organizing, and transforming raw data into a format that is ready for analysis, reporting, or machine learning.
It’s a critical step in the data lifecycle because high-quality decisions and models require high-quality data.
In this case a single code for both Kaggle and hugging face. 

Step 5 : (Directory 6)
Data transformation is the process of converting data from its original format into a new structure or format that is more appropriate for analysis, reporting, or machine learning.
Example
\"\"\"Perform feature engineering and transformations.\"\"\"\n",

✨ Common Data Transformation Tasks
Task
Description
Example
Normalization
Scaling numeric data to a standard range
Scale income to a 0–1 range
Standardization
Shifting and scaling data to have mean = 0, std dev = 1
Standardize test scores
Encoding
Converting categorical data into numerical form
"Yes"/"No" → 1/0
Aggregation
Summarizing data
Total sales per month
Pivoting/Unpivoting
Restructuring data tables
Rows to columns and vice versa
Filtering
Removing irrelevant data
Only keep rows where status = "active"
Date-Time Conversion
Changing date formats or extracting components
"2025-08-18" → year: 2025


Step 6 : (Directory 7)
A Feature Store is a centralized system or platform used to store, manage, and serve features for machine learning models—both during training and in production.

Sample Code
"# Create a table to store engineered features\n",
    "cursor.execute('''\n",
    "    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS feature_store (\n",
    "        customerID TEXT PRIMARY KEY,\n",
    "        tenure INTEGER,\n",
    "        MonthlyCharges REAL,\n",
    "        TotalCharges REAL,\n",
    "        Contract_OneYear INTEGER,\n",
    "        Contract_TwoYear INTEGER,\n",
    "        PaymentMethod_CreditCard INTEGER,\n",
    "        PaymentMethod_ElectronicCheck INTEGER,\n",
    "        PaymentMethod_MailedCheck INTEGER,\n",
    "        Churn INTEGER\n",

Step 7 : (Directory 8)
Data versioning refers to the process of tracking, managing, and controlling changes made to datasets over time. Just like software version control (e.g., Git for code), data versioning ensures that every modification, addition, or deletion in a dataset is recorded, allowing users to reproduce experiments, roll back to previous states, and maintain consistency across projects.
Write a code in python get upload the files in GIT
https://github.com/n1000/ml_pipeline/tree/main
Step 8 : (Directory 9)
Model Building is the process of developing a machine learning (ML) or statistical model that can learn from data and make predictions or decisions.
It involves preparing the data, choosing the right algorithm, training the model, evaluating its performance, and tuning it for accuracy.



Step 9 : (Directory 10)
Sample Python code
The word “Orchestrate” in data science / ML / cloud computing contexts means:
Coordinating and automating multiple tasks, processes, or services so they work together smoothly as one system.
It’s like being a conductor of an orchestra — ensuring each instrument (data pipeline, model training, deployment, monitoring) plays at the right time in harmony.


Step 10 : (A word document)
Content as follows
Detailed Documentation: End-to-End Data Management Pipeline for Machine Learning
Explanation of the Pipeline Design
Overview
The objective of this pipeline is to design, implement, and orchestrate a complete data management pipeline for customer churn prediction. The pipeline encompasses the full lifecycle of data management, from ingestion to orchestration, ensuring data quality and model reliability.
Pipeline Architecture
The pipeline follows a modular architecture with the following stages:
	•	Problem Formulation
	•	Define the business problem and objectives. 
	•	Identify key data sources (transaction logs, web interactions, APIs). 
	•	Establish expected outputs (clean datasets, transformed features, deployable model). 
	•	Data Ingestion
	•	Automated fetching of data from sources (e.g., databases, APIs). 
	•	Implementation of error handling mechanisms for failed ingestions. 
	•	Logging mechanisms for tracking ingestion status. 
	•	Raw Data Storage
	•	Data stored in a data lake (AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage). 
	•	Partitioning by source, type, and timestamp for efficient retrieval. 
	•	Data Validation
	•	Implementation of validation checks for missing values, data types, and anomalies. 
	•	Use of tools like Great Expectations or PyDeequ to generate data quality reports. 
	•	Data Preparation
	•	Handling missing values via imputation or removal. 
	•	Standardization of numerical attributes. 
	•	Encoding of categorical variables. 
	•	Feature Engineering & Transformation
	•	Aggregation of customer behavior features. 
	•	Generation of derived features such as tenure and frequency. 
	•	Storage in a feature store for retrieval. 
	•	Data Versioning
	•	Use of DVC (Data Version Control) for dataset tracking. 
	•	Maintenance of metadata and version history. 
	•	Model Training
	•	Experimentation with ML algorithms (Logistic Regression, Random Forest). 
	•	Evaluation using accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score. 
	•	Model tracking with MLflow. 
	•	Pipeline Orchestration
	•	Automation via Apache Airflow to ensure task dependencies. 
	•	Monitoring and logging of failures. 
	•	Visualization of DAGs for task execution. 

Challenges Faced and Solutions Implemented
Challenge
Description
Solution Implemented
Data Collection
Inconsistent data sources, missing labels, and imbalanced datasets.
Implemented active learning and semi-supervised learning for labeling; used data augmentation to balance classes.
Data Granularity
Some sources lacked fine-grained timestamped data.
Applied lossless data aggregation techniques to retain necessary details.
Data Quality Issues
Missing values, duplicate records, and incorrect formats.
Used pandas for handling missing values and Great Expectations for automated data validation.
Handling High Cardinality Categorical Data
Customer categories and identifiers introduced feature explosion.
Used embedding techniques instead of one-hot encoding to reduce dimensionality.
Feature Drift and Data Drift
Changing customer behaviour affected model performance over time.
Implemented monitoring scripts to track drift and retrain the model when performance drops.
Error Handling in Data Ingestion
API failures and incomplete logs disrupted ingestion.
Added error logging and retry mechanisms to ensure robust data fetching.
Pipeline Failures & Dependency Management
Interdependent tasks failed due to cascading failures in ingestion or validation.
Defined DAG dependencies in Apache Airflow and added alerting mechanisms.
Versioning and Reproducibility Issues
Dataset changes impacted model consistency.
Used DVC to version control both raw and transformed datasets.
Model Overfitting
Model performed well on training but failed on new data.
Implemented regularization, dropout techniques, and cross-validation.

Finally Group Recording of all executives 
Ex. https://drive.google.com
